Let's get into some Neo4j.
So this is our graph database
that we're gonna be using today.
The first thing I want you to do is I want
you to just run this docker command here.
This is gonna get our Neo4j
database up and running.
So this is gonna open port 7474, that's
where the browser experience is exposed.
And the port 7687,
which is actually the communication
port where you can actually have
your node app write to Neo4j.
We're gonna say no authentication cuz
we're just doing this locally for
fun in our computer.
Obviously, you would not
do this production and
have advanced credentials and
things like that.
And we'll be on version 4.1.3.
So I'm just gonna copy that command,
have head over to my terminal,
paste it in there.
And now, if I say docker ps,
you can see here, I got Neo4j running.
And now, I'm gonna connect to it
with something called cypher-shell.
So I'm gonna copy this one here,
paste that.
And that will now connect me to Neo4j and
the cypher-shell.
So what a cypher, cypher is actually
the name of the query language for Neo4j,
just like you have JavaScript for
MongoDB and SQL for Postgres.
The query language for
Neo4j is called cypher.
It's not the only query language for
graph databases.
In fact, I think cypher
actually just works on Neo4.
But there's one called Gremlin
that works with kind of
a wider variety of databases
including things like Cosmos DB.
Okay, so let's get into actually creating
our very first node in our database here.
So we're gonna be talking about
the movie Scott Pilgrim vs the World,
which is like one of my favorite movies.
So I'm going to subject you to my
personal preferences of movies and
we're going to create our first node here.
So I'm gonna say CREATE, and again,
this is optional that you capitalize this.
You can also say create just like that.
I'm gonna capitalize it for your benefit.
CREATE, and we'll make a p:Person.
So this p here just represents a variable.
We're not gonna necessarily
refer to it right now,
but this :person right here,
this is the label that we're gonna
put on this particular node.
So it's gonna be a person, and then we're
gonna add some attributes to Scott.
Not Scott, Michael, Michael Cera.
So I'm gonna say,
name: "Michael Cera" like that,
who plays Scott Pilgrim in
Scott Pilgrim vs the World,
and Michael was born in 1988.
So these right here are the properties or
attributes of this particular person node.
So person here, this is called a label,
and these are called the properties.
Okay, and then I'm gonna close that,
put a semicolon.
And now, I've added one node and set two
properties and added a label to that.
So now, what happens if I want a query for
this particular node that I've made?
I'm gonna say MATCH, P like this.
So again, using a variable,
you can say person.
This is just a variable name, so
that we can refer to it later.
I'm gonna put p cuz I'm lazy, and
I'm gonna say name: "Michael Cera".
And this is how I'm gonna query for
that node that I just created.
Here at the end,
I need to put a curly brace there.
Here at the end, I'm gonna have to say
RETURN cuz you have to do something with
that node that we just created for it.
I'm gonna say RETURN p, and
you can see here, we have now query for
this Michael Cera node that we've created.
We could also have created for
it just like this.
So p:Person like that, this is going
to match every person in the database.
Now, in this particular case,
we just have one node in the database and
it happens to be a person.
But you can see there that
also matches Michael Cera.
Or if you wanna just get every single
node, this is gonna match every single
node, which again, we just have one
node in the database, Michael Cera.
Okay, let's create a second
node in our database.
This node is actually going to represent
the movie Scott Pilgrim vs the World.
So we're gonna say CREATE m:Movie.
Again, this m here just represents
the movie that we're creating,
it represents the variable, right?
Or it is the variable rather.
And then we just have to give it all
the attributes that we wanna give it.
So create movie with a title
of Scott Pilgrim vs the World.
It was released in 2010.
Its tagline, and I'm not making this up,
this is actually the one
that someone in marketing [LAUGH]
chose for Scott Pilgrim vs the World.
Tagline is An epic of epic epicness.
Someone was like really self-impressed
when they came up with that line.
Okay, and
then we'll close our object there.
So that'll be all of the properties,
and then we'll close that.
And then here, if you want to,
you can say RETURN m;.
This will both create it and
then will return it, so
that we can inspect it right.
So now, we can see, here's the movie
thing that we just created.
It added one node, set three properties,
and added one label.
Cool.
So now, we have two nodes.
So if I run that same query, MATCH (p)
RETURN p;, I should get two things back,
one person and one movie.
As you can see here,
I get one person and one movie.
Now, I wanna create a relationship
between Scott Pilgrim and Michael Cera.
I wanna say that Michael Cera acted in and
that acted in is gonna be the relationship
or the edge between those two things,
that Michael Cera acted in
Scott Pilgrim vs the World.
So the first thing we have to do is
we have to match both of those nodes.
So I'm gonna say MATCH,
(Michael:Person), (ScottVsWorld:,
which is a movie.
Now honestly, I could stop here cuz
I literally only have one person and
one movie.
But let's go ahead and
make this a little bit more qualified.
So I'm gonna add a where clause.
I'm gonna say WHERE Michael, Again,
Michael just being a variable
that represents Michael Cera,
.name = 'Michael Cera' AND
ScottVsWorld.title.
I did call it title, right?
I did.
Okay, cool.
Title = 'Scott Pilgrim
vs the World', okay?
And I'm gonna say, CREATE
a relationship with Michael on one end.
I'm gonna put a- here, then I'm gonna
put a relationship between the two.
So I'm gonna do that with a kinda square
bracket, and I'm gonna call this r,
you can call this a relationship or
something like that.
I'm gonna say relationship:ACTED_IN.
So the important part is here,
this relationship, again,
represents a variable.
ACTED_IN here, this represents the type
of relationship that we have here.
So the type of relationship
is that Michael Cera acted in
Scott Pilgrim vs the World.
And this also can have
properties of its own.
So the role that Michael Cera had in
Scott Pilgrim vs the World, if I do this,
Is he had the role of Scott Pilgrim.
Now, this is actually gonna be an array
here cuz yeah, as you can imagine,
if we're doing the Nutty Professor,
Eddie Murphy had like five
roles in that movie, right?
In this particular case,
Michael Cera was just Scott Pilgrim.
So we'll just close it at that.
Okay, that's all the properties that we're
gonna put here in this relationship, but
we could put as many as we want.
And then we have to close
the square bracket.
And then we have to describe,
again, this is a relationship.
So I'm gonna put another- here, but
I wanna describe the cardinality of the
direction of this particular relationship.
It's Michael Cera acted in Scott Pilgrim.
So there's a direction with that.
So I'm gonna put this arrow here, right?
Again, this is just a space with
an angle bracket at the end of it.
But when I put those together,
my font combines them.
It actually looks pretty nice
with this particular set up here.
So Scott Pilgrim here is
gonna be ScottVsWorld.
This is gonna represent the movie, right?
Now, I can hit semi-colon here and
hit Enter, this would be done.
But I just wanna return the relationship
here, so I can investigate that.
So if I put semicolon here now, you can
see here it created one relationship and
set one property.
And the relationship that I've created
here is an ACTED_IN relationship of
Scott Pilgrim.
So this is one of the things that I
like about cypher is a query language.
This is actually based on ASCII art and
they actually explicitly say that they did
this so
that you kind of read it like a picture.
So we have one end of this relationship,
and then we have this
particular thing here.
In fact, let me just copy and paste it so
you can see here, kind of in a vacuum.
It's meant to read like a big arrow.
In fact, if you just kinda like
pared this down a little bit,
It's supposed to look like
this where you have like (a),
then a relationship to (b), right?
So it's meant to kinda like
read like a big arrow.
But when you have a bunch of stuff in
here, it kinda gets like drawn out, right?
Cool, last thing I wanted to kinda
call out here is kind of this,
you'll notice the case in here
that it looks a little weird.
So one, these relationships are always
described in screaming case, right,
where everything is all uppercase.
It doesn't have to be that way.
That's just kind of conventions that
it's really easy to see that this is
a relationship type.
Whereas you look at something like
the label here like this one,
it's in capital case again.
So that's very easy to recognize at
a glance that this is a label type,
not a relationship type.
It's something that people
in the Neo4j community do.
It's something that the docks recommend.
So I just recommend that you do that, too.
So the next thing is we're going
to copy and paste this really long
query here,
That adds the rest of the actors and
actresses and
directors to Scott Pilgrim vs the World.
So, oop, I guess, I hold on,
that's gonna fail.
I'll try that again.
So if we do that, that added 7
nodes created, 7 relationships,
and set 20 properties.
You can see here, we added Aubrey Plaza,
Brie Larson, Anna Kendrick,
all these actors and
actresses to Scott Pilgrim vs the World.